# _A Pipelined Approach for Interpreting, Summarizing, and Generating Spoken_

# _Speeches_

This Repository contains code for automated summarization of 50 handpicked popular speeches and evaluated by 5 experts on its performance on prescribed evaluation metrics

# Dataset:

The project uses pre-trained models for Text-to-Speech and Speech-to-Text. Models are trained on the LibriJ Speech dataset for both tasks.

The Data used for testing the final models are 50 popular speeches which are in .mp3 format. This data is handpicked from YouTube and ten converted to .mp3 files by using web software tools.

# Description of Source Code:

The source code consists of a pipelined approach for speech summarization. The pipelined approach is well-commented in the speech\_summarizer.py file. The pipeline is as follows:

- Speech-to-text
- Text Summarization
- Text-to-Speech

The Text summarization module is implemented as a separate package. All the functions of the summarization task are contained in the summarizer python module which is imported in the speech\_summarizer.py file during deployment of final summarized speech output.

# Output Structure:

The output of the project is 50 automatically generated summarized speeches which are in .mp3 format. The summarized speeches can be found in /Results/Summarized Speeches folder. The speeches are evaluated finally using MOS scores.

# Results Files:

The textual summarized speeches are evaluated on ROUGE Scores which is in /Results/Evaluation Metrics/ROUGE Scores.docx. The document contains comprehensive scores for each speech with the expert hypothesis as the primary reference.

Final output summarized speeches are evaluated on Mean Opinion Scores by the same experts. The evaluation scores are found in /Results/Evaluation Metrics/Mean Opinion Scores.docx.

# Instructions for running the source code:

The model requires packages to be installed for the execution of the program. The requirements are given in /Source Code/requirements.txt file and can be installed by running the following command:

pip3 install –r requirements.txt

The final output .mp3 files can be generated by running the speech\_summarizer.py file as follows:

python speech\_summarizer.py

**Hardware Requirements** :

The Tacotron2 model requires a CUDA supported GPU for deployment.
